DOCS-10394 added content for rest validator extension (#343)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/rest-validator-extension.adoc

= Configure REST Validator Extension
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> The REST validator extension enables you to perform schema validations against the attributes of a request using a RAML or OAS specification. Additionally, the extension adds default values to attributes, if they were not originally set in the request.

Reviewer: Does "using" refer to the validations  ("that use") or to "you" ("by using")?

Reviewer: To avoid past tense, how about "...attributes if they are not already set"?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> This documentation exclusively applies to REST validator extension v2.x. Concepts that do not apply to versions later than 2.x are appropriately noted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation applies exclusively to REST validator extension v2.x. Concepts that do not apply to versions later than 2.x are appropriately noted.
```

Reviewer: OR...
```suggestion
Unless otherwise noted, this documentation applies exclusively to REST validator extension v2.x.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

To use the REST validator extension in your Mule artifact, such as a Mule runtime engine (Mule) application XML, you must:

> 

Reviewer: Are the following list items chronological? If not, use bullets instead.

Reviewer: The following four items are complete sentences, so they should each end with a period.

Author: Done! Thanks!

. <<include-dependency,Include the dependency in your pom.xml file>>
. <<add-namespace-and-schema,Add the namespace and schema to your Mule artifact>>
. <<configure-rest-validator-extension,Configure the REST validator extension>>
. <<use-operations,Use REST validator operations>>

[[include-dependency]]

> == Include dependencies in Your pom.xml File

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Include Dependencies in Your pom.xml File
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You can include the REST validator in your Mule artifact, for example, a Mule application XML, by adding the following snippet in the `<dependencies>` section of your pom.xml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can include the REST validator in your Mule artifact (for example, Mule application XML) by adding the following snippet in the `<dependencies>` section of your `pom.xml` file:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,XML,linenums]
----
<dependency>
		     <groupId>com.mulesoft.anypoint</groupId>
		     <artifactId>mule-rest-validator-extension</artifactId>
		     <version>${restValidatorVersion}</version>
		     <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

> As a best practice, you can define a Maven property inside the <properties> section, with the version of the REST validator that you want to use, for example:

Reviewer: Per style ref., avoid "best practice" language and use of modals like "can."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define a Maven property inside the `<properties>` section, with the version of the REST validator that you want to use:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,XML,linenums]
----
<properties>
<restValidatorVersion>2.1.3</restValidatorVersion>
</properties>
----

[[add-namespace-and-schema]]
== Add Namespace and Schema to Your Mule Artifact

To use the REST validator operations in your Mule artifact, include the following namespace and schema: 

[source,text,linenums]
----
xmlns:rest-validator="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/rest-validator"
xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/rest-validator http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/rest-validator/current/mule-rest-validator.xsd"
----

[[configure-rest-validator-extension]]

> == Configure REST Validator Extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the REST Validator Extension
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To configure the REST Validator, add the following snippet in your Mule artifact:

Reviewer: Use "syntax" rather than "snippet"?
"snippet" refers more to the length of something than to what it actually is, and it might not be immediately familiar to nonnative English readers.

Reviewer: REST Validator extension or REST validator extension? It's lowercase later.

Author: Done! Thanks!

`<rest-validator:config name="validatorConfig" api="${specFile}"/>`

This snippet contains the required attributes for configuration. You can specify <<config-reference,additional attributes>> to customize the extension. The following example illustrates how to use attributes deserializing strategies:
[source,XML,linenums]
----
    <rest-validator:config name="configValidator" api="${specFile}" keepApiBaseUri="true">
        <rest-validator:attributes-deserializing-strategies arrayHeaderDelimiter="COMMA"/>
    </rest-validator:config>
----

[[use-operations]]

> == Use REST Validator Operations

Reviewer: operations or operation?
Plural here, singular next

Author: Done! Thanks!

After you configure the REST validator, you can start using the validator operation:

> 

Reviewer: We don't currently have a style for inline bold headings like these.
Consider using a bullet list for these...what would you call these items?

*Operation Name*

`validate-request`

*Description*

> Validates request against the specified RAML or OAS specification in the configuration.

Reviewer: Do not use "shorthand" style abbreviated text that omits articles (a or the) before nouns:
```suggestion
Validates a request against the specified RAML or OAS specification in the configuration.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

*Usage Example*

`<rest-validator:validate-request config-ref="validatorConfig"/>`

*Attributes Description*

> The following table lists the attributes and their descriptions:

Reviewer: The table does not list the attributes and [list] their descriptions; it lists the attributes and describes them.

Author: The following table lists the attributes and provides their descriptions: Done! Thanks!

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]

|===
| Attribute | Description | Required?

> | `attributes` | A DataWeave expression used to extract the attributes that need to be validated. Default value: #[attributes] | No

Reviewer: active voice
```suggestion
| `attributes` | A DataWeave expression that extracts the attributes to validate. Default value: #[attributes] | No
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `payload` | A DataWeave expression used to extract the payload that needs to be validated Default value: #[payload] | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `payload` | A DataWeave expression that extracts the payload to validate. Default value: #[payload] | No
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

| `config-ref` | A REST validator configuration. | Yes
|===

*Output*

> If the request does not violate the defined schema, the validation ends successfully and the result of the operation does not modify the HTTP request attributes. Conversely, default values are added to the schema validation, and the output includes the original and new HTTP request attributes.

Reviewer: parallelism, no comma
```suggestion
If the request does not violate the defined schema, the validation ends successfully and the result of the operation does not modify the HTTP request attributes. Conversely, default values are added to the schema validation and the output includes the original and new HTTP request attributes.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

*Error Types*

The ‘validate-request’ operation might raise different errors if a problem occurs when retrieving a file or if the validation does not end successfully:

> * `REST-VALIDATOR:BAD_REQUEST`: Error raised when some of the attributes do not match with the schema. The attributes that are considered during the validation include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `REST-VALIDATOR:BAD_REQUEST`
+
Error raised when some of the attributes do not match the schema. The attributes that are considered during the validation include:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

** Form Parameters
** Headers
** Query Parameters

> ** URI Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Form parameters
** Headers
** Query parameters
** URI parameters
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * `REST-VALIDATOR:METHOD_NOT_ALLOWED`: Error raised when the schema does not support a particular method for the required resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `REST-VALIDATOR:METHOD_NOT_ALLOWED`
+
Error raised when the schema does not support a particular method for the required resource.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * `REST-VALIDATOR:RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND`: Error raised when the root schema or some related file cannot be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `REST-VALIDATOR:RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND`
+
Error raised when the root schema or some related file cannot be retrieved.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[config-reference]]
== REST Validator Extension Configuration Reference

> The following table lists the attributes that you configure for your validator extension:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table describes the attributes that you configure for your validator extension:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]

|===
| Attribute | Description | Required?

> | `name` | A unique identifier for your configuration | Yes

Reviewer: If you mix fragments and complete sentences in one table column, then all texts in the column must end with periods.
```suggestion
| `name` | A unique identifier for your configuration. | Yes
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

| `api` | If you are using a version of the REST validator later than 2.0.0, you must use the `raml` attribute. This includes the location of the specification file against which the requests are to be validated. | No
| `parser` | The parser used to validate the requests:

> * AUTO (default): APIKit attempts to initiate the validation using AMF. If errors are generated, the RAML Parser is used for the validation.

Reviewer: bullet format, active voice:
```suggestion
* AUTO (default)
+
APIKit attempts to initiate the validation using AMF. If errors occur, the RAML parser performs the validation.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* AMF: The APIKit router uses AMF to read the API and validate incoming requests.

> * RAML: The APIKit router uses the RAML parser to read the API and validate incoming requests. | No

Reviewer: ditto re. bullet-list format specified by style reference

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `keepApiBaseUri` | Specifies whether  the `baseUri` property in the specification must be overridden with the URI of the deployed application.

Reviewer: Consider rewording to avoid "must be overridden."

Author: Done! Thanks!

> If you need to use the console operation, you must set this property to "true". The default value is false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you must use the console operation, set this property to `true`. The default value is `false`.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> If you are using a REST validator version that is older than 2.0.0, you must use the `keepRamlBaseUri` attribute. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a REST validator version later than 2.0.0, use the `keepRamlBaseUri` attribute. | No
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `queryParamsStrictValidation` | Validates whether all the query parameters in the request are defined in the specification file.  If some of the parameters are not specified, the validation fails. The default value is "false". | No

Reviewer: GLOBALLY change format of values to use syntax font.

Author: Done! Thanks!

| `headersStrictValidation` | Validates whether all the required headers defined in the specification are defined in the request. If some of the parameters are not specified, the validation fails. The default value is "false". | No

> | attributesDeserializingStrategies` | Allows parsing of the HTTP headers that contain an array of values, separated by a delimiter (comma). | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| attributesDeserializingStrategies` | Allows parsing of HTTP headers that contain an array of values that are separated by commas. | No
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===

== REST Validator and APIKit Compatibility Reference

> You can share the REST validator (pom.xml dependency) across applications using a domain. However, if some of those applications also have a dependency on APIKit, that version of APIKit in each application must match the one required by the REST validator version that you need to use in your domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can share the REST validator (`pom.xml` dependency) across applications by using a domain. However, if some of those applications also have a dependency on APIKit, that version of APIKit in each application must match the one required by the REST validator version that you use in your domain.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> For example, if you use the REST validator v2.2.0 in your domain, all your applications using APIKit must import the 1.4.2 version. The following table lists the APIKit module versions that are compatible with a specific version of the REST validator:

Reviewer: This example is not obvious until after the table of compatible versions. Consider something like...:
```suggestion
Per the following table of compatibilities, for example, if you use the REST validator v2.2.0 in your domain, all your applications using APIKit must import the 1.4.2 version:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

*Error Types*

The ‘validate-request’ operation might raise different errors if a problem occurs when retrieving a file or if the validation does not end successfully:

* `REST-VALIDATOR:BAD_REQUEST`
+
Error raised when some of the attributes do not match with the schema. The attributes that are considered during the validation include:

** Form parameters
** Headers
** Query parameters
** URI parameters

* `REST-VALIDATOR:METHOD_NOT_ALLOWED`
+
Error raised when the schema does not support a particular method for the required resource.
* `REST-VALIDATOR:RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND`
+
Error raised when the root schema or some related file cannot be retrieved.

[[config-reference]]
== REST Validator Extension Configuration Reference

The following table describes the attributes that you configure for your validator extension:

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]

|===
| Attribute | Description | Required?
| `name` | A unique identifier for your configuration. | Yes

> | `api` | If you are using a version of the REST validator later than 2.0.0, you must use the `raml` attribute. This includes the location of the specification file against which the requests are to be validated. | No

Reviewer 2: `api` is a required attribute.

Author: Done! Thanks!
